Hello welcome to the section 19 challenge for solution video.
I'm in the section 19 workspace and the challenge underscore for underscore solution project.
And here's a solution to this project.
It's pretty straightforward.
We're going to do a couple of different ways.
Like I said one would put my numbers on every line and then move modified a little bit so that we're
only putting line numbers on lines that actually have text.
So we've got our includes we're including stream extreme IO manip and string and we're creating our
input stream right here our input file which is Romeo and Juliet text.
And of course it's in my parent directory because I get them in code like I'm creating an output file
stream where we're going to create a copy of this file with my numbers and I just called it Romeo and
Juliet underscore out that text.
I'm opening both files and I'm double checking that they're both open for reading and writing.
If they're not I provide an heir just like we've seen before.
Here I've got a line which is a stitch string and I've got a counter for the line numbers and I've initialized
it to zero.
Pretty simple.
That's it.
Now I'm going to start processing the file I'm going to use getline because I want to read a whole line
at a time.
I'm using getline and I'm reading a line from infile what I'm doing is no matter what if it's successful
up I'm incrementing in line number here and I'm simply displaying a line number left justified in a
width of seven.
That gives me a nice formatted area on the left side of the file that's got all the line numbers in
there and then line which is also be left justified against that eighth position basically.
That's it.
Then a display copy complete close both files and we're done.
So if we run this copy complete we can go to our project and open up the folder.
And we should have a Romeo and Juliet underscore out which we do right here I'll double click on that.
And there you go you can see everything's lined up nicely with line numbers on the left hand side.
OK.
Now what I said earlier was this kind of bugs me all these line numbers on these blank lines.
So I don't want that let's just do another version of this program that gets rid of those.
So that's what we'll do next.
What we'll do is we need the logic right in here.
Basically what we want to do is we want to do this only if the line is not empty.
Right.
So let's put an if statement here will say if the line we just read is empty then what do we want to
do.
And we just want to write to the file.
We still need to write the blank line to the file.
So I'll just say in file sorry not in file out file.
And more right then line that's it and we'll have an L statement here and we'll wrap all of this up
inside that else and we'll just indented over
OK.
That's it.
So now we're we're only display a new line we're not displaying text because there is no text right.
We're not just playing a line number because we don't want to display a line number on an empty line.
And if it is not an empty line then we're going to treat it as normal we're going to increment the line
number and display it.
So let's run that.
And let's take a look at the output again.
And that's pretty much what I wanted.
Right.
All the blank lines are still displayed but they are not numbered and that's it.
I hope your challenge was fun and I hope you basically got the same kind of solution.
There's a lot of different ways that you can modify this program if you had any and want to share.
Please post on the forums.
So that's it for this video.
There are a couple of videos left in this section.
The next one is going to be about using streams streams which allows us to use our own in memory strings
as streams which is pretty cool and we will address input validation which is a question that's come
up a bunch of times in the forums.